>> Brian Holt: So
let's go on to dev containers.
I think that's this is something
that's going to apply more
directly to a bunch of you here.
How many of you have joined the company,
and
it's taken you two weeks to get your
development environment set up?
Yeah, when I was at Netflix,
I don't think I was able to
ship code at least for a month.
And I don't think I'm even
exaggerating because at the time,
they have a phenomenal interesting system
for development servers, but it's so
hard to get it.
Cuz you just have to, what I said here,
you have to get mercury and retrograde and
you have to align the stars for everything
to work, but when it works, it's amazing.
That's kind of the problem that dev
containers are aiming to solve,
that you don't have to have these bespoke,
highly artisanal development environments
that you have to spend weeks setting up.
Ideally, you can just sit down and
say, Docker compose operas or
something like that and everything
just starts working on your computer.
>> Brian Holt: Not always one to one that
way it's like kinda the dream of vagrant,
does anyone remember vagrant?
Or am I old now?
I think I'm old now.
Anyway, vagrant was
HashiCorp's very first product.
And when HashiCorp was really
just Mitchell Hashimoto.
Anyway, let's talk about this.
So we're gonna build a Ruby
on Rails project, and
the first thing you should say is, Brian,
you don't know Ruby and you are correct.
I do not know Ruby, but I chose this
project specifically to prove you to
the that it doesn't matter
that I don't know Ruby,
that we can get this set up with
like no problem whatsoever.
So I'm gonna copy this, I have this
running locally, or I have all the files.
Really, all I did with this Rails project
is just do like the Rails new project,
I didn't do anything beyond that.
Because again, I do not know Ruby.
So I have it
in personal/container-projects,
there it is.
And I have it, I think it's in,
is it in dev containers?
Is that where I put it?
>> Brian Holt: So all right, that's fine.
>> Brian Holt: Docker-volume, difficulty
>> Brian Holt: All right,
so now I have my dev containers project,
and
we're gonna open that in code,
I'll close that one.
So spoiler alert, but
we'll get there in just a second.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so if you do this
in VS Code, which you don't have to, but
I am, obviously, for
purely unbiased reasons.
It's gonna ask you,
do you wanna reopen this in a container?
So I would say yes, to do it.
I am gonna show you just really quick,
cuz this used to frustrate me.
If you accidentally missed that,
but you still wanted to do it,
that's what this little, logo down here
in the bottom left, this green one.
You can just say Reopen in Container,
if you click on that.
You can also do it through
the command palette.
So command P or,
>> Brian Holt: Ctrl+P, and
then just put the angle bracket there, and
then you can say reopen in container,
that also works as well.
Anyway, we're gonna do it here,
reopen a container.
It's gonna restart it, you can say,
it's gonna open all of this stuff.
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna
do all of my installations,
it's gonna do a bunch of stuff.
It's gonna have a problem with
my Ruby version, apparently.
>> Brian Holt: Global, sure,
I don't know, whatever, Ruby.
I'm sure I'm offending so
many Ruby developers, and I don't care.
Okay, that's fine.
>> Brian Holt: It wants my
Ruby file in particular.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway,
>> Brian Holt: So
point being, were you all seeing that
as well the same kind of Ruby error?
Okay, good to know.
>> Brian Holt: But you can see here
I am inside of a Ruby environment.
If I say cat /etc/ issue.
You can see that I am inside of Debian 11.
Yeah, let me get through
what the notes say here.
>> Brian Holt: An interesting,
I don't think I have Ruby installed in my
computer, but if I say ruby -v,
you can see it's on ruby 3.3, that's good.
>> Brian Holt: And
I should be able to say rails server
>> Brian Holt: And then it should
ask you do you wanna open this in Browser?
You can say Open in Browser.
And this is all now running directly
from a container on my computer.
Again, as you saw here,
I do not know what I am doing, right?
But it's pretty cool that someone
smarter than me can come before me and
set all this stuff up so
that I can just say, yes,
reopen in container and
just be an off into the races.
Now I have to admit my bias here,
I helped with this project
when I worked at Microsoft.
This is a very Microsoft initiative,
but they have kind of spun it out.
It's now owned by GitHub and
not by Microsoft.
And it works with JetBrains.
There's ways to make it work with Vim,
there's even a CLI now that if you don't
wanna be working anywhere near an IDE,
all that kind of stuff still works.
So let's just kind of talk
a little bit about this.
If I'm gonna be working on a project with
anyone that I know, I generally will set
up a DEF container for them so
that they kinda have this experience.
I'll even set it up for myself so
that every time I open my project,
it just says, hey,
do you wanna reopen this container?
And I just say, yes, and I'll set
them in my development environment.
So this one I actually didn't have
to build my own Docker file for.
I was able to just basically pull directly
from the Microsoft dev containers
cuz I have a bunch of them that
are just like ready to go.
You can see here it's pulling from mcr,
that's Microsoft Container Registry, and
it's pulling the ruby 3 bullseye.
It's telling it directly up front, it's,
hey, you're gonna have to forward port
3,000, it'll detect that even
if you don't tell it that.
And then on whenever you create
the project, just run this setup file and
that'll get all of your dependencies
installed automatically for you.
Another cool feature here
that we're not showing you,
you can also set it up with VS code
to install the correct extensions.
So let's say you're in Python and
you wanna have Pylance.
Or if you're doing Jupyter notebooks, you
can have the Jupyter one that and it'll
just install those automatically inside of
the container, and that'll all just work.
And then,
let's look at the remote explorer.
So you can see here I'm running
this dev container here.
It'll tell me a bunch of stuff about
what I'm doing with my dev container.
So there's a bunch of stuff you can
play around here directly from Microsoft
as well.
Pretty cool feature, I think.
One thing I was gonna say,
if you can create totally custom
docker files as well for
your dev containers, right?
You don't have to use the Microsoft ones.
Generally, they're pretty good.
So I generally, start with the Microsoft
one, and then I build on top of it.
But if you have some wild bespoke
environment that you need,
that's all totally possible here as well.
And in case, it just bears mentioning,
your dev container will not be
the same as your production one.
It's just good to say that out loud.
In retrospect,
it might seem a little obvious, but
it's okay that your project has
multiple docker files in it, okay.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, and
then whenever I close this,
it just shuts it all down for me.
I don't really have to think about it,
because I closed my VS code,
it's just gone now.
So let's look for
a second here at the bottom,
I showed you everything in VS code.
That's because out of the out of the box,
everything just works with VS code.
You'll have to install an extension, but
it should prompt you to
install that extension.
So that shouldn't be that big of a deal.
There's a dev container CLI that handles
all this stuff kind of locally for
you without being attached to an IDE.
This all works in Visual Studio,
probably no surprise there.
IntelliJ now has support for
this as of last year some time.
And then the other thing that I find
extremely useful with this is that,
if you decide to open something in
Code Spaces, it just works, right?
Code Spaces will see as, this person has a
dev container and then it'll make whatever
container that your GitHub Code Spaces
is running in use that dev container.
If you're not familiar with Code Spaces,
it's, if I go to
github/btholds/completeintro-to-container-
s-V2.
And I want it to just work on
this without downloading it.
I can just say, create Code Space.
>> Brian Holt: And this will open VS Code,
this will open a real
running Linux environment.
This one does not have a dev container
that I haven't put in there,
so it has a generic universal image there.
But pretty cool, I can just start working
on this directly, and it's free, right?
It's free for up to 60 hours per month.